Well, when I was in my early 20s, I was a high school teacher just starting out in my career.
And what happened was I started, I was teaching in the Ottawa area and I bought some tickets to go to some Ottawa Senators games.
I'm an Ottawa Senators fan, don't hold it against me.
And what happened was I noticed a booth in, when you kind of went out in the concourse and it was this booth and they had these beautiful
Senators T-shirts.
And what I noticed was this booth was made by MasterCard, okay?
And MasterCard had this beautiful Ottawa Senators credit card that you could get.
They had a picture of it.
And I was like, oh, that would be nice to have.
Like, imagine I'm with my friends and we go for lunch and I'm like, oh, lunch is on me.
And I pull it out and they're like, oh, look at that nice Senators MasterCard you have there.
And on top of it, I get the free T-shirt.
So I was like,
I'm in, so went over, signed up for the MasterCard, got the MasterCard, put in my pocket, and then, you know, I'm out with my friends, we're out at Subway, and I'm like, hey, lunch is on me, because, hey, it's not real money anyway, right?
And B, look at my nice senators, and people be like, whoo, where did you get that card?
And I was like, oh, it's my senator's MasterCard.
And I ended up buying different meals, buying this, buying that, and it didn't really feel like real money,
And after a few months of making minimum payments on this card, somebody said something about interest rates, right?
So I was like, okay, maybe I'll look at like what I'm paying.
And I looked at the fine print and it was 23% I think it was paying on this card.
And I was like, this is the most expensive t-shirt I have ever owned in my entire life.
Now, listen.
We all have made mistakes when it comes to our finances.
When it comes to, we look back and we have regrets, things we wish we changed, decisions that we're in now that we wish we had made, that we're trying to deal with.
And in this series, Finding Your Sweet Spot, we're talking about escaping the hustle and embracing generosity, escaping the hustle and embracing generosity.
And what we want for you is a guilt-free, shame-free conversation about
how to handle your finances, and in particular, God's plan for your finances.
And what we're talking about in this series, you've kind of landed in the middle of the movie, if this is your first Sunday.
We've been talking about the fact that culture teaches you to think like a consumer, but God asks you to be his money manager.
That if you ask our culture,
What should I think about money?
It's like buy more, get more, upgrade to the next, whatever you can have to have more.
There's this constant pressure to have more and more and compare it to the next.
But when you read scripture, what God actually says is, hey, everything you have comes from me.
And the question is, how can you steward it well?
How can you be a good money?
manager and Eminem.
We've been calling it over the course of this series and we've been talking about what does that mean because if you're a follower of Jesus you want to align with his plan for your finances.
Now the thing about it is that everyone's on a different journey.
That's what you learn in a series like this.
Some of you are here today and you're like, man, I've got a lot of debt.
Some of you are here today.
You're like, I don't have any debt.
My house is paid off.
Some of you are here today.
You're like, I'm just starting out.
I don't think I'm ever going to own a house in my entire life.
Some of you lease cars, some of you own cars, some of you are business owners.
So you're thinking about cash flow and paying employees and all of that.
I mean, we're all coming from a different place.
But the reason we can have an important conversation about money is because there are common human things when it comes to money.
When it comes to our money, there are common human narratives.
So there are stories that we tell ourselves.
There's a handful of stories.
Often they come from our childhood that you have enough or that you'll never have enough.
Some of you grew up in a household where there was lots of debt.
Some of you grew up in a household that was anti debt.
So it comes with all of those narratives.
There are emotions that come with it.
Emotions come with money is an emotional thing.
Have you noticed that?
There's anger.
You know, maybe in a marriage that happens around finances, there's jealousy.
When it comes to finances, those are real emotions, there's frustration.
There are temptations that we all face, things that we go, well, you know, I can't really afford it.
Oh, I know, like, I can't really, but maybe if I just put it on, charge it to, there are lots of temptations we have financially, right?
That come when it comes to finances, it's how you get into too much house or too much car.
There are lots of pitfalls when it comes to finances.
Pitfalls, like,
Online gambling is a big pitfall that people get caught up in.
There are all kinds of places.
People get pitfalls lending money to family.
Anybody done that and regretted it, right?
Yeah, right.
No show of hands.
But yeah, right?
There are common human narratives, emotions, temptations, and pitfalls when it comes to finances.
And we've been looking in this series at what Jesus had to say about finances.
And in Matthew 6, he said this, he said, no one can serve two masters.
For you'll hate one and love the other.
You'll be devoted to one and despise the other.
You cannot serve God and be enslaved to money.
Say, hey, if you're a follower of Jesus, you can't say, well, God, I trust God, God's in control, God's number one in my life.
But when it comes to my money, I'm in control, God is not number one.
He's saying, you can't do both at the same time.
That you've got to open your Bible and figure out how do I align the plan for the money that God has given me
with his plan for my life.
And if you're here today and you're like, I'm not sure I believe in God, well, you kind of get a front row seat into what scripture has to say, what the Bible has to say about how you handle your money.
And if I have a goal for you, or if you wanna put an overarching kind of sentence that describes what the Bible teaches on money, I would say it's this, you live with margins so you can live on mission.
The idea that,
God wants you to have financial margin in your life so that you can do the things that you wanna do, but how do you do that well?
And at the same time, live on mission.
He wants you to be a generous person.
He wants you to have the ability to be generous, to make a difference with the money that he's given you.
That's what we're talking about in this series.
And living with margin so that you can live on mission to me is the definition
of sweet spot.
That's what we're trying to do in this series.
It's called finding your sweet spot, escaping hustle, embracing generosity, and scripture wants to help you.
God wants to see you in your sweet spot.
And your sweet spot starts, we started in part one with contentment.
The sweet spot starts with contentment.
Contentment is choosing when enough is enough.
Deciding, I'm not gonna let the world continue to dictate to me that I need more and more and more and more.
There is a line that is enough.
And there is a God that is enough.
And there are a difference between needs and wants.
And last week we talked about generosity.
That man, we wanna leverage our money to change our hearts.
God says, man, you can actually leverage your finances to give you a Godlike heart through generosity.
We talked all about that last week.
And then today we're gonna talk a little bit about this one.
The sweet spot is debt free and saving.
Man, how do I get to the point where I am debt free
and I'm setting money aside.
And when we can do these three things at the same time, we find the sweet spot that God wants us to be in as we trust Him with the stuff that He has given us now.
All of us are in a different part of this journey.
And there are times in your life you're out of the sweet spot and times in your life that you're in the sweet spot and you're trying to get there.
That's what I like about the language.
It's not like, oh, I live there every moment.
There are times in your life you're trying to get there, times in your life you are there.
But how do we continue to move there more consistently in our lives?
Today, I want to look at what Paul says.
Paul is a church planter theologian and he shares with his apprentice Timothy
about money, this young apprentice.
He wants to make sure he's up to speed on how God would have him look at his finances and be in his sweet spot.
And what's happening is there are a bunch of preachers who are out there just trying to leverage religion to make money.
We still see that today.
And he wants to caution Timothy around it and gives him some incredible insight.
And he says this in 1 Timothy 6.
He says, yet, true godliness
With contentment is itself great wealth.
This sentence alone, like we could just go home.
He's saying, listen, you want to know what a rich life is Timothy?
Can I tell you in your early 20s, Timothy, how to have a rich life?
Be godly and choose contentment.
That in itself is real wealth.
The way you treat the people around you,
The way you worship and serve God with your life, that's true godliness.
And then choosing to be content, deciding when enough is enough.
If you can do those two things, you are going to be so wealthy in the most important ways.
Because we all know it, right?
If you get the privilege of living a long life and you're lying in hospice at the end of your life, you are not going to be surrounded by your stuff.
Hopefully you will be surrounded by the people you have loved well and the people you have cared for well.
And that's true godliness with contentment.
He's saying, you wanna know what a rich life is before we even start Timothy?
This is what you're aiming at.
And then he says this, after all, we brought nothing with us when we came into the world and we can't take anything with us when we leave it.
My friend Noah Herron, he's a pastor, he says this, money,
won't go with you to heaven, but what you do with it will."
And he says, man, Timothy, you got to get this.
Timothy, you're not going to take it with you when you go, right?
Going down to 400, you have never seen a hearse with a roof rack on it, right?
You've never seen this.
It's not how it works.
He's saying, Timothy, this is not how it works.
He said, I want you to have a rich life, godliness, contentment, investing in eternity.
Contentment isn't found in having more.
It's found in trusting that God is enough.
Though God will provide enough, that I need my needs provided.
If we're God promises he will, I will trust him and know that no matter what happens in my life, that he is gonna be enough for me.
Now, I know we struggle with enough.
Our culture struggles with enough and our consumer culture pushes us to say enough isn't enough
And the way we know that is how much debt we have.
The average Canadian consumer debt, consumer debt, give or take a thousand, is $22,000.
That's the average Canadian.
Now some of you are like, ooh, I'm above average in church for the first time.
You do not want to be above average on this one, okay?
But that's the average Canadian consumer debt.
And what is that made up of?
What is that debt made up of?
It's made up of auto loans and leases.
That's about half of it.
credit cards is about 10%.
Personal loans and lines of credit, 30%.
What's interesting here is this one keeps going down and this one keeps going up.
You know why?
Because we charge it on our credit card and then we realize, oh, I'll just pay off my credit card with my line of credit.
So that's why this line keeps going up.
Student loans and other, that's another 10%.
This is the average debt load of a Canadian.
And our whole culture is pushing us often to leverage these things in order to have more.
And we want to talk a little bit about that today.
He goes on to say this in 1 Timothy 6, he says this.
So if we have enough food and clothing, let's be content.
Man, Timothy, I want to help you choose contentment.
I want to help you stay out of a situation where you're over leveraging yourself, spending money that you don't have.
I want to help you be content.
And then he says this.
But people who long to be rich fall into temptation and are trapped by many foolish and harmful desires that plunge them into ruin and destruction.
This is interesting to me.
The language here, the longing, he doesn't say, but people who are rich fall into temptation.
He says, the longing to be rich, the harmful desires.
What's he talking?
He's talking about feeling here.
He's not just talking about dollars and cents.
He's talking about emotions.
And the people who long to be rich, who have to have more, who feel consumed by the desire to compare and keep up and get to the next, people who are driven by that, isn't say it's wrong to be rich, it's the longing to be rich that is so dangerous, it's really interesting to me.
When I was a kid, my friends and I would say, hey, when you're rich, because when you're little, everybody thinks you're gonna be a YouTube star, right?
So when you're rich, right?
Whenever a rich job you have, when you're rich, we would say, what car do you want to have?
This is the kind of thing we talk about.
And my car was the Lamborghini Countach.
Now, that dates me a little bit.
But I mean, it was this beautiful red car every boy had an odd poster on their wall.
And I was like, I want the Lamborghini Countach.
Now, why do I want the Lamborghini Countach?
Because it's good to get groceries.
You can't even fit groceries in it.
Because it doesn't fit a car seat.
No car seats going in your Lamborghini Countach.
It's not even comfortable to sit in if you've seen one of these cars.
Why?
Why even at a young age do I, because it's practical, because it's helpful?
No.
Why?
Because I want to know how it feels.
And I think we all grow up like that.
I want to have those clothes.
I want to have that vacation.
I want to be it because I want to know how it feels.
Often, not all the time, but often we don't want to be rich.
We want to feel what it's like to be rich.
I want to know and what is rich.
Rich, if we're looking at it financially, is always the next person.
We're not rich.
No, no, not us.
It's the next and the next and the next.
And I want to feel what it's like
to be in that category when it comes to cars, houses, clothing, whatever it is.
And it's that feeling that Paul is saying, man, you gotta be careful.
You gotta be careful.
I'll show you the verse again.
He says, but people who long to be rich, who have these desires, they fall into temptation and they are trapped.
The people who are trapped who get trapped are the people who have the longing and the desire
Right, they up here, I'll give you an illustration of this.
Right, what happens is you have this longing, this desire, you go to buy a car and then what happens?
There's a nicer one at a higher budget and you're like, well, you know, maybe if we stretched ourselves, maybe if we added this or you go to buy a house and you had a budget, but then you saw that kitchen and then you're like, well, what if we like pushed it more?
You know, like,
What if we didn't wear clothes anymore?
And that was cheaper, you know, whatever, like we will find any way to leverage it, you know?
I mean, I love this kitchen, we're gonna entertain, we've never entertained before, but with this house, this is gonna be the entertain house, right?
And what happens is it's this is longing for more, this credit card is a symbol for longing for more, and we wanna leverage, right?
And we see it, we see, well you know,
I really love to do that vacation and they've invited us to go and we can't really afford it, but we can put it on the credit card.
And man, I'd love to know what it's like.
And I mean, we'd pay it off, right?
Like I'm sure we'd probably pay it off.
I'm not sure how, but eventually we'd pay it off.
And I know it's 23% and I'll say, boom, that's a great way to cut your credit card up, by the way.
Boom, we're trapped.
This is the illustration he's trying to make.
That man, it's the longing to, it's the desire to, it's the insatiable desire to continue to have more that will cause you to over levered yourself.
And there are all different kinds of money traps.
Let me give you four categories of money traps.
You've got monthly payments and subscriptions, right?
The minute you are in a conversation to buy something and it moves from the total cost to what can we afford monthly, you are in the midst of being trapped.
Well, you know, what if we did this and, you know, if we, you know, maybe if we took that car loan and we paid it back instead of over five years, over 15 years, you know, then I could afford it.
Seven years, eight years and I know it's gonna be, I'm gonna end up paying way more for it and the car might only last six of the seven or six of the eight, but you know, you get caught up in that payment.
And you can pay for anything, right?
You can go on Amazon, it's like,
Oh, yeah, great.
You want to buy this binder for your kids for school?
You can put on monthly payments.
They'll do it.
And here's one that's even closer to home.
What about subscriptions?
I dare you to sit down and look at your monthly statements and figure out how many things you subscribe to.
How many, it's like, well, you got Netflix and you got Disney Plus and you got Hulu.
And then you've got the subscription.
You're like, oh, I thought that was a free trial app.
I didn't realize I've been paying for it for a year.
And you've, oh yeah.
And then you upgraded that app and then it cost you this.
And you don't realize what you're paying monthly.
How about that gym membership?
And you haven't been to the gym in a year.
And you think by driving by the gym, maybe you'll get fit if you just pay, right?
You know, I've been there.
I've been there.
I've paid a gym membership for a year.
I didn't use my friends like, oh, you're paying the fat tax.
That's what you said to me.
But we get caught up in payments.
I never got around to counseling, to canceling.
And then there's easy swipe and click.
I mean, there's so many things now that are so, it's so easy.
It doesn't even feel like real money, right?
Just tap it, click it, put it on Apple Pay.
Quick, quick, quick.
You don't even realize what you're spending.
You're on your phone.
You know, you got that game.
on your phone that you feel too guilty to admit to everybody you play that game, but then you're on the game and you're like $2 for like a laser sword, 18 crystals, and a unicorn, like that sounds like a deal, right?
Bye.
And you know, right?
You know, you know that on your phone, those games, like that is a slot machine for your phones, what that is, right?
You have an emergency that becomes permanent, right?
Something that you said, well, you know, we really need it, but we're going to pay it off in the next two months, but then you're two years later and you still haven't done it.
Or even lifestyle creep.
Lifestyle creep can be the hardest, right?
Because you're like, well, we need new lamps.
So you go and get the lamps and you put them in the living room and you're like, I can't have these beautiful lamps and have this ugly old carpet.
So then the carpet goes, well, I can't have the lamps and the carpet in the furniture.
So then it's the furniture and then it's the flooring, but that flooring goes through the house to the kitchen.
So we probably just need to do the kitchen.
Let's just do the whole main floor.
Right?
It's that lifestyle creep and it happens in microwaves and it traps us.
And the reason, the reason we have to be careful about the longing for, about the desire for that is not kept in check is it causes us to overextend ourselves.
And the wisest person ever lived Solomon, King Solomon in Old Testament says this.
He says, the borrower is slave to the lender.
That your money begins to work for someone else.
That your money is, the money that God has given you is working for someone else.
Not for you, you're not managing it and you're not stewarding it.
You have to be so careful.
And then he goes on to say this in 1 Timothy.
For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil.
He doesn't say money is the root.
It's the love of money.
It's back to the emotion of this.
The love of money is the root of all kinds of evil.
And some people, craving money, have wandered from the truth, the true faith, and pierced themselves with many sorrows.
I mean, as a pastor, I can't tell you how many times I've seen this.
People who have pierced themselves with many sorrows out of the love of money.
It can be a number of different things.
can be online gambling, can be somebody who's like, just can't stop buying lottery tickets.
It can be somebody who said, man, I just got to get my business to a certain level to the point they've left their faith behind.
So many people who, man, out of the love of money, just having to have more have ended up train wrecking their faith.
So what does it mean to be godly and choose contentment?
Well, the importance of contentment is contentment directs your heart.
Contentment is what says to your emotions, hey, okay, this is enough.
The choice to be content.
Contentment isn't something you fall into, it's something you choose.
This is what enough is.
This is where the line is from my heart when it comes to wanting more and having more and all of that.
That contentment directs your heart.
But there's a second piece of this
that's really, really important and has to go with contentment.
You know what has to go with contentment?
A plan.
See, contentment directs your heart, but a plan actually directs your money.
What is your plan when it comes to your money?
There's a really helpful verse in Proverbs 21 where Solomon says this.
He says, I think it's really helpful.
Good planning and hard work lead to prosperity, but hasty shortcuts
lead to poverty.
Good planning and hard work lead to posterity, but hasty shortcuts lead to poverty.
I know that, man, it's hard often to make ends meet in these days, but I would say if you don't have a plan, you're already gonna find this really difficult.
I actually think that most people work hard.
It's just many people don't have a plan.
It's not that they're working, they aren't working hard, but they don't really know where their money is going.
They don't really want to sit down and look at where it all heads.
And they're like, I don't really know.
I just kind of hope that I have enough at the end of the month.
And they're not actually sitting down and looking at it.
It's not a hard work issue.
It's a planning issue.
And the thing about planning, the thing about planning is what I actually mean when I say planning is I mean budgeting.
Because I know when I say budget, some people in this room are like, oh my gosh, I am out.
like spreadsheets and I'm not doing this.
Because some of us, that's not our strong suit, but man, you've got to have a plan for where God's funds are going.
Making and following a budget is actually a spiritual thing.
Did you know that?
Actually sitting down and saying, okay, God gave me these funds.
Where are they all going?
That's a spiritual and act as singing worship songs, getting up in the morning and reading your Bible.
Sitting down and saying, man, God gave me these finances.
Where are they gonna go?
It's pre-deciding where your money is gonna go.
A budget, by the way, is not, I'm gonna sit down and write down where all the money already went.
That's too late.
It's pre-deciding.
This is where it's gonna go and following it.
This is where I'm gonna send my money.
Now, a budget is, when we think about budget, we think, well, this is about wants and needs.
That's true, a budget is about wants and needs.
And when you think of a budget, a budget is about how much money is going in and how much money is going out.
That's true.
That's what a budget is.
But you know what a budget really is when you look at in light of what Paul says here?
Budgeting is managing the gap between your income and your ego.
It's looking at what income you actually have versus where your heart is really at.
And saying, hey, what does this actually look like?
What is the gap between my ego
am I actually in my actual income and what is enough now when it comes to budgeting again as I said earlier everybody's in a different situation and I want to share with you something we shared over the years really simple but it's something to get your conversation started when you think about okay if I wanted to sit down and actually look at this how would I approach it and we want to look at where every where a dollar goes this is how we'll kind of do it with you we're going to look at where dollar goes and
And I'm going to share with you this little principle.
So your God's money manager, so you get the M&Ms.
If you're with us last week, you got 10 M&Ms, right?
I gave them to you right off the floor.
So you got 10 M&Ms here.
And this represents the dollar that comes in.
And so what we talked about last week is the first 10% would go to give.
That actually is a scriptural principle.
First 10% goes to give.
And then,
The rest of this is a little bit based on scripture, but some of it is just practical knowledge.
It's not like, oh, there's a verse on this in the Bible.
But what we found helpful to people is the next 10% goes to save.
So that goes to you to have savings.
And then you live on the rest.
So that's one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
Now, last one's a little greedy.
It's stuck to me.
So eight.
So we used to do this with our kids, actually, where they would have to have like
when they got like birthday money or an allowance that we'll put it in.
And now you might say, hey, Jeff, I've got some, some dad I have to pay off and so I'm not gonna be able to quite save as much or I'm gonna try to live on less, I wanna try to live on 70%, so I could pay off that.
I'm not saying, hey, this is like the hard and fast only way to do it.
I'm just saying, this is a tool for you to begin the conversation.
I mean, where does the money that God has given you go?
And to get a handle,
on the gap between your income and your ego.
Because here's one of the things that I'm concerned about.
And the younger you are, the more concerned I am about this.
Currently, social media is full of people who want to tell you how fast they got rich on the latest scheme.
And if you're on TikTok, it's the worst spot for that, right?
It's like, well, I made my first million on this, and it's like,
It makes you feel like if you don't have a million dollars by the time you're 19, you somehow failed.
And it doesn't mean you fail.
It means you live in reality with everybody else.
And what you see on there is like, oh, I made this money on crypto, or I made this money on sports betting, or if you're older, I made this money on house flipping, or I made this money on rentals.
And I'm not saying that some of those things are not possible.
I'm not saying that they're not possible.
But what it does is it actually distracts people
from the most important place to make financial decisions.
I think your most important financial decisions are made at your kitchen table.
It's not chasing after the latest thing.
It's sitting down and going, okay, let's actually look at what's coming in and what we're spending on and how we're stewarding it and where it's going.
But that's a harder conversation.
It's easier for me to chase after the latest get rich quick thing that somebody told me about or I saw online than it is actually to sit down and do the hard work.
But this is often where prosperity is.
Morgan Haussell wrote the book, The Psychology of Money.
I've shared before it's a really helpful book.
And he says this in the book.
He says, but the truth is that wealth is what you don't see.
Wealth is the nice cars not purchased, the diamonds not bought, the watch is not worn, the clothes for gone, and the first class upgrade declined.
Wealth is financial assets that haven't been converted into the stuff you see.
And this, to me, is so true.
That we think that the appearance of wealth is wealth.
And a lot of the time,
It's just not.
When my boys would drive around with me when they were younger, they would see all these cars.
And they would go, oh, look at that car.
Look at that Ferrari.
Look at it.
We were on the highway.
And I would play a game.
It was called car or car payment.
And they'd have to guess if they thought the person was driving a car or a car payment, which were they driving.
And we would be in our beat up Honda Odyssey that I think got us 12 years out of that car.
And I would say, well, yeah, I mean, our cars beat up, but I own this car.
But the bank owns that Ferrari over there.
So who is actually the wealthiest between us?
See, wealth is the assets that haven't been converted into the stuff that you see.
And we think that wealth is about watches and
flying business class all the time, or private planes, and all of the stuff social throws at us.
That owning all those things is what makes you wealthy.
But often, for most people, it's the choice not to chase after the mirage, and build wealth that actually is the secret to prosperity.
Now, we wanna help you do this, and today is kind of a little piece of that, but I shared earlier, we're offering our financial learning experience,
It's actually here in Berry today at three o'clock.
It's 90 minutes.
It gets into all of this and really helps you with it.
And you can register at this URL on the screen.
There's also resources, podcasts, books.
If you feel like you have a lot of wealth to manage, you're also going to find this really healthy, helpful as well as the financial learning experience.
There are so many resources.
available to you.
We want to see you thrive.
This is also being offered tomorrow night online.
So if you can't make it today, you want to register for tonight, just let us know so we can be sure to have the materials for you.
And you're going to find so many helpful tools and practical pieces to help you with your finances.
It's even more practical than what I shared today.
And my goal and my heart and the reason we did this series is because I want to see you live in your sweet spot.
I want to see you live with margin so that you can live on mission in your life.
I want to see you go, man, I don't have to put the vacation on my credit card and try to pay off as little as I can for the next three years.
I want to be able to pay cash for it.
You have an opportunity to help someone with a need and respond and be generous.
Then you have the ability to do it.
I want to see you get there.
And I know that it means hard choices.
I know that it means kitchen table conversations.
17, 18 years ago, almost now, when Leslie and I moved here to come to Connectsys.
We had our house up for sale in Oakville, and we got a really good offer on it.
But we thought there was going to be a bidding war, and I got greedy.
And I said, let's wait and see if there's a bidding war tomorrow.
And you know what happened tomorrow?
2008 happened tomorrow.
And the stock market crashed.
And we watched our house depreciate four months while I commuted to Barry instead of moving to Barry.
And there are a bunch of costs involved with that that started to rack up.
And so we had these costs and they were going on the credit card.
We got a house here and we moved into the house here in the very first month in the first week on a minus 35 day with a brand new baby.
The furnace died.
And the same week, the dishwasher and the fridge also died.
And it was like, OK, we're going to put all this on the credit card.
That's what we did.
We put it on the credit card.
And what are you going to do?
You've got a freezing baby.
And man, we could not get on top of that money.
Like, we were paying the bare minimum and trying to, and you lie on the pillow at night.
And you think, oh, like, and you know what happens to me?
Like, I don't want to look then at the budget.
Like, I don't want to know.
And I'm grateful that as stupid as I am, I have a very wise wife.
And it was like, no, we've got to look at it.
And for us, the financial learning experience was a turnaround for us.
We went to it, and we figured out what tithing and generosity was, and we wanted to do that.
And we realized what this credit card debt was and what the interest level was.
I didn't even get a free t-shirt.
They don't keep giving a t-shirts, by the way.
It's just the first one.
And I was like, man.
And we sat down and we made a plan.
And as we made that plan, we worked the plan.
And you know what's way better than lying on your head, your pillow at night, and wondering how you're going to pay it off is a plan.
I know it's not fun.
Some of you are like,
I'd rather have a colonoscopy than sit at the kitchen table and have a conversation about budget, like really.
I get that.
I get it.
Because for some people, they don't want to know.
They don't want to let my spouse do it or I'll figure it out.
But man, I'm telling you, I'm telling you, for us, it was the giant first step in getting into our sweet spot and spending so much more of our life there.
And it wasn't easy, but it was worth it.
That's why I wanted to have a three-week conversation about money, because I want to see you thrive.
I want to see you with margin living on mission.
I want to see you living more of your life in your sweet spot.
But the truth is, man, along the way, there is such a journey of trusting God and seeing Him show up that that is the best part of it all.
And that,
is what I want for you.
Let me pray for you.
God, we come to you today.
And man, money is emotional.
Like God, we're just being honest and it can make some of us anxious.
And as we look to steward it, whether we feel like we have a lot of it or we feel like we're really struggling, as we look to steward it, we know
that at the end of the day, the answer is still to bring it all to you because it comes from you in order that we might direct it with intentionality, that we might steward it well, that we might make wise decisions so that we can point more people to you with our lives and with our generosity.
And God, I admit, we admit there are times
We confess where emotionally we get up, we get caught up in a longing for more, a desire to be in control, and a mindset that what we have is just never enough.
And God, we know what that does is it just diminishes what you did on the cross, for what you did on the cross was enough for us, no matter where we're at financially.
And God, we come to you.
I pray for each and every person here who's gonna have a kitchen table conversation, who's gonna take a hard look at a spreadsheet, who's gonna sit down and actually look at where their finances are going.
Who's gonna work on a plan, who's gonna be at the financial learning experience.
God, I know the anxiety and the emotion in the midst of that.
And I just pray that David know you walking alongside of them.
And that we wouldn't just see the open door here and look at it, but we would have the courage to walk through it.
and I pray this in your name.